Using the Debugger (#67)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-1: intermediate-python-debugging/debugging-pytest.md

# Debugging Tests With Pytest

> All the previous lessons on debugging apply to running tests, but VS Code has the ability to run individual tests from the editor and it allows you to run tests in the debugger.  This can help you get tests to pass and identify why they fail.

Reviewer: Remove reference to previous lessons, and reference knowledge instead. Prefer "we." Reverse logical ordering so seeing failures comes first and is primary result of using debuggers

```suggestion
All the previous learnings on debugging apply to running and debugging code when running unit tests. However, VS Code has the ability to run individual tests from the editor and it allows you to run tests in the debugger.  This can help us identify why tests fail and get them to pass.
```

> ## Learning Goals
> 
> By the end of this lesson, we will be able to...
> 
> - Run the debugger on individual tests

Reviewer: As mentioned in others:

- I'd prefer this to be called "Goals"
- SWBAT statement hasn't been in the other lessons...
```suggestion
## Goals

We have practiced using a debugger tool while running Python programs. Our goal is to apply those same debugger skills when we are running unit tests.

This lesson is structured like a follow-along exercise to illustrate:

- Setting up Pytest for the VS Code debugger
- Running tests using the VS Code debugger

Besides setup, overall we should observe that our familiar tools of setting breakpoints, running, pausing, and debugging, are overall similar between tests and programs.
```

## Setting Up Pytest for VS Code Debugger

You can set up VS Code to run the tests in the editor with `command-shift-p` and enter `Python: Configure Tests`.  

![configure tests](../assets/vs-code-debugger/python-configure-tests.png)

VS Code will ask you which test framework you want to use.  Select Pytest.  VS Code might ask you to install Pytest, which you can do so.

![Select Test framework to use](../assets/vs-code-debugger/select-pytest.png)

Then select the folder containing your tests.

![Select the tests folder](../assets/vs-code-debugger/select-tests-dir.png)

Then VS code will provide feedback on your tests allowing you to run them in the editor individually or run a test in the debugger with a click.

## Running Tests In The Debugger

Once configured VS Code can run tests in the debugger using links above each test.

The image below is an example of a test in VS code which is failing.

![Failing test](../assets/vs-code-debugger/failing-test-vs-code.png)

While the image below shows another test which passes.  Notice the checkmarks next to `Run Test` and `Debug Test`.

![Passing test](../assets/vs-code-debugger/passing-test-vs-code.png)

> You can then add breakpoints and use watches to examine why the test is not passing.

Reviewer: Is this lesson finished?

> # Debugging Tests With Pytest

Reviewer: Nitpick: file/top header consistency

```suggestion
# Debugging Pytest
```

Author: I'll rename the file, as this title sounds like we're debugging the Pytest library

All the previous learnings on debugging apply to running and debugging code when running unit tests. However, VS Code has the ability to run individual tests from the editor and it allows you to run tests in the debugger.  This can help us identify why tests fail and get them to pass.

## Goals

We have practiced using a debugger tool while running Python programs. Our goal is to apply those same debugger skills when we are running unit tests.

> This lesson is structured like a follow-along exercise to illustrate:

Reviewer: When you record this video, if you end up making scaffolding for this (aka you need some code with some tests), it might be worth it to somehow share that with the students.

I can imagine either of these options being fine:
- Make a repo and link it in this repo
- Insert the code snippets of the code + tests inside of this file, and ask the students to copy/paste them (just like how you did in the debugging in vs code lesson)
